+++
title = "GitHub Action : Tuto GitLab"
author = ["Charlène"]
date = 2021-03-18
tags = ["github", "programmation"]
draft = false
+++

COurs sur les GitHub Work[Flow](https://lab.github.com/githubtraining/github-actions:-hello-world?overlay=register-box-overlay).

Il y a deux types d'actions : Container actions ou Js Actions.

> Docker container actions allow the environment to be packaged with the GitHub Actions code and can only execute in the GitHub-Hosted Linux environment.
>
> JavaScript actions decouple the GitHub Actions code from the environment allowing faster execution but accepting greater dependency management responsibility.

<!--quoteend-->

> jobs: is the base component of a workflow run
> build: is the identifier we're attaching to this job
> name: is the name of the job, this is displayed on GitHub when the workflow is running
> runs-on: defines the type of machine to run the job on. The machine can be either a GitHub-hosted runner or a self-hosted runner.
> steps: the linear sequence of operations that make up a job
> uses: actions/checkout@v1 uses a community action called checkout to allow the workflow to access the contents of the repository
> uses: ./action-a provides the relative path to the action we created in the action-a directory of the repository
> with: is used to specify the input variables that will be available to your action in the runtime environment. In this case, the input variable is MY\_NAME, and it is currently initialized to "Mona".

```nil
jobs:
  build:
    name: Hello world action
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v1
      - uses: ./action-a
	with:
	  MY_NAME: "Mona"
```

[Explication](https://blog.octo.com/tour-dhorizon-de-github-action/)

En définitif, pour l'instant je ne sais pas trop comment je pourrais avoir besoin de ce CI/CD. À voir sur des projets plus constant. C'est pas ma prio.
